Add possible ideas to solve problems we met in Parallel Commit (#11)
tikv/sig-transaction: design/parallel-commit/parallel-commit-solution-ideas.md

Neither can we tell the client `T` has been committed just after allocating TSO as `T`'s commit_ts. Because if server crashes it will never know what TS it has allocated, and it can not find the proper commit_ts anymore.

Actually, we believe we should persist some information that helps us in finding the commit_ts, and it should have been persisted when the transaction has been "successfully committed". Our current idea is persist `max_read_ts` into the lock that we prewrites, and the final commit_ts will be `max_over_all_keys{max_read_ts}+1`. However it's hard: we need to get the current value of `max_read_ts` before writing down the locks, however new reads may happens between getting `max_read_ts` and successfully writing down the lock.

We may have no perfect solution to this problem, but we have came up with some different ideas that may be possible to solve it.

### Idea 1: Memory Locking 

> When we got the max read ts as `M` and then prewriting key `K` with max read ts `M`, we want to prevent other transactions from reading `K` with a ts larger than `M`. The most straightforward way is to make a in-memory lock: A Parallel-Commit prewrite should lock the keys it want to write, before reading the `max_read_ts`, and release the lock after finishing prewrite. A read operation should check the memory lock after updating `max_read_ts` and should be blocked (or return a KeyIsLocked error) when it meets the memory lock. Read operations don't need to actually acquire locks. It can proceed reading if it finds that the keys it wants to read are not locked.

Author: >  A read operation ... and should be blocked (or return a KeyIsLocked error) when it meets the memory lock.

I just noticed that it should return a KeyIsLocked error directly here, since after the memory lock is released, it will nearly definitely meet the lock we just wrote.

Reviewer: If a read found a mem lock, check the mem lock max_read_ts, if read ts is smaller than mem lock's max_read_ts, the read can be served.

> The memory lock should support range-based queries, because a reading operation may need to scan a range. So the memory lock should be implemented by an ordered map (like BTreeMap, Trie, SkipList).

Reviewer: And it need to be thread-safe.

Therefore, the major difficulty of memory lock solution is that how to keep the performance.

### Idea 2: RocksDB-Based Lock (By @gengliqi)

This idea differs from [Idea1](#idea-1-memory-locking), only in that we are using RocksDB instead of an in-memory data structure to store locks. We avoid most performance impact if we can put it directly to LOCK_CF without Raft replication, however, it might introduce too many corner cases and troubles to resolve, considering that there are leader changing and region scheduling in TiKV. Therefore we may add a new CF to store these kind of locks. The performance comparing to [Idea1](#idea-1-memory-locking) is uncertain before we actually do a POC test.

> ### Idea 3: Transaction List (By @Little-Wallace)

Reviewer 2: Sorry but I don't fully understand what's the difference between idea 1 and 3. I think essentially speaking they are all locks in memory.

Author: In Idea 1 the locks are managed by a map of keys, and reads  need to check keys in it. In idea 3 we keeps a list of running prewrites and reads need to check each items in the list who  have got a smaller `max_read_ts` than the current read transaction.

Reviewer 2: So if I understand it correctly, comparing Idea 1 and 3 is actually weighing the cost of searching keys in the map and iterating over the running transactions?

Author: Yes. @Little-Wallace is trying to make a optimized design of the transaction list.

The main idea is to adjust the lock's `max_read_ts` in Raft layer. It might be hard to avoid Raftstore coupling with transaction logic though.

First, readings on followers should send the read ts via the ReadIndex message to the leader, and the leader records it. When a prewrite of a Parallel-Commit transaction is being proposed in Raft layer, it's `max_read_ts` field should be updated if it's smaller than the `max_read_ts` that was recorded in Raft layer. This makes it possible to write down the `max_read_ts` among all replicas.

However this doesn't apply to the case that a ReadIndex arrives between a prewrite's proposal and committing. We can't edit `max_read_ts` from the raft log since it has been proposed, and we cannot immediately allow the follower to read before the log being applied. So secondly, we need a additional mechanism to prevent the follower from reading without the lock. 

> In the current implementation (where Parallel Commit is not supported), ReadIndex returns the leader's commit index, and the follower can read only when its apply index >= leader's commit index. So one way to solve this problem, is to let the leader return `max{commit_index, pc_index}` where `pc_index` indicates the index of proposed prewrite of Parallel-Commit transactions. This is easy to implement, but increases latency of follower read, since the follower needs to wait for applying more logs before it's permitted to read. Another approach is to let the leader returns both `commit_index` and `pc_index` for ReadIndex, and the follower needs to construct a in-memory lock for committed-but-not-yet-applied prewrites, and reads are permitted when the leader's `commit_index` is applied and, additionally, `pc_index` has been committed. Then the read should be blocked if it tries to read keys that has been locked by the in-memory lock we just mentioned.
> 
> Note that Raft learners also need to do this. TiFlash might be exclusive with parallel commit before we support this mechanism on it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the current implementation (where Parallel Commit is not supported), ReadIndex returns the leader's commit index, and the follower can read only when its apply index >= leader's commit index. 
One way to solve this problem, is to let the leader returns `pc_index` after this `pc_index` log is committed if `pc_index` is greater than the commit index. `pc_index` indicates the index of proposed prewrite of Parallel-Commit transactions. This is easy to implement, but increases the latency of follower read, since the follower needs to wait for applying more logs before it's permitted to read. 
Another approach is to let the leader returns both `commit_index` and `pc_index` for ReadIndex, and the follower needs to construct a in-memory lock for received-but-not-yet-committed prewrites, and reads are permitted when the leader's `commit_index` is applied and, additionally, all logs before `pc_index` has been received. Then the read should be blocked if it tries to read keys that has been locked by the in-memory lock we just mentioned. Note that Raft learners also need to do this. If we choose this approach, TiFlash might be exclusive with parallel commit before we support this mechanism on it.
```
